# A Brief Comparison of C-based and ASM-based Performance

We cover the entire contents of this document in the demo video [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EDC1G2IOLVbhMBtM45rEyzZwuRmomZDa/view?usp=sharing).

## Methodology

We compare the execution times of two different implementations of the vector dot product operation, which we write in
both C and ASM flavors. We test our implementations with vectors of different dimensionalities; in particular, we have
elected to use `1 << 16`, `1 << 20`, `1 << 24`, `1 << 28`, and `1 << 30` as sizes for our vectors. We then go over all
these values and generate a pair of vectors with random values between `0` and `99` (note that we set the seed for the
generation to maintain reproducibility). An option for normalizing both vectors is included in the code. This makes it
easier to deal with the values and limits them to a more comprehensible range (`0` and `1`). Of course, after creating 
the vectors, we run both flavors of the dot product kernel multiple times (twenty in this case) to prevent biases from
arising due to chance. 

## Analysis and Results

We summarize the results below, which show all values in seconds. As can be seen, the ASM kernel consistently outperforms
the C kernel by a rate of at least three. The magnitude of the standard deviation we obtain for all runs also indicates a 
fairly consistent measurement across the twenty different trials, per size of vector. It might be important to note that
the standard C library functions for `time()` were used to obtain the benchmarking results shown below.

| Vector Dimensions        | C (avg / sd)              | ASM (avg / sd)            |
|-------------|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| 65,536      | 0.000150 / 0.000366        | 0.000000 / 0.000000        |
| 1,048,576   | 0.002950 / 0.000224        | 0.000850 / 0.000366        |
| 16,777,216  | 0.046650 / 0.004848        | 0.013750 / 0.001372        |
| 268,435,456 | 0.727700 / 0.006400        | 0.214950 / 0.011473        |
| 1,073,741,824 | 2.921300 / 0.029762      | 0.859800 / 0.028091        |

## Raw Outputs

For the sake of documentation and the completeness of data, we kept track of the entire output produced by the program.
A similar output can be regenerated by running the batch file, and because of the `srand(0)` seed, the values should be the same.
But to avoid necessitating the need to run the program, we have included the full dump as a reference. Look at `out.txt`.